Earlier
in the course, in the section about arrays, we had this exercise
to count the number of occurrences of a given element in
an array. So this is the solution that we wrote for this exercise, if you
don't have this, download the source code for all the exercises for this course,
you can find this at the beginning of the course in the first section.
So, in this project if you look, in the arrays folder,
the 5th exercise countOccurances, so
copy that code into index.js to use for this exercise.
Now, this function has a tiny problem. Here we
are assuming that the first argument is a valid array.
What happens if we call this function with a boolean?
We get this error, uncaught type error,
array.reduce is not a function. Because here we're calling array.reduce
and booleans don't have this reduce method.
The same happens if you pass null or undefined,
or number. When we pass null we get a different error, cannot read
property reduce of null. So here we need to modify this function
and add error handling. So this is what I want you to do for this exercise.
If this first argument is not an array,
I want you to throw an exception, then wrap these two lines,
with a try catch block, we can also wrap these entire
three lines altogether in a try catch block, it doesn't really matter
one of these lines is going to throw an exception, that is the second line,
call to. countOccurences function. So there catch the exception
and log it on the console. Again, very simple exercise,
it just helps you get used to working with exceptions. You will see my solution
next.
So in this function, first we need
to validate the first argument. Earlier you learned about array
.isArray method, so we can pass this first argument
here, and if this is not a valid array,
we want to throw an exception. So throw new error
invalid array. We can add
any error messages here, it doesn't really matter. Now, we want
to wrap this code in the try catch block. So,
try we put these three lines there,
and then catch, here we add an
identifier for our exception, the error object that we are throwing
here, we get that and display
it's message property on the console.
Save the changes, and here's our error message.